A common point of confusion when it comes to understanding technology is the relationship between startups and innovation. Few people realize it, but innovation in and of itself is NOT a goal for startup Entrepreneurs. It’s only that, in many cases, innovation helps those Entrepreneurs achieve the full potential of their venture. As written by Babak Nivi,
Quality measures how far a product advances the customer. Scale measures how many people use it. For entrepreneurs, there is no tradeoff between quality and scale. The job is to do both — not one or the other. If it can’t be done, you innovate.
Of course there are talented Entrepreneurs in the non-digital economy. But the digital economy attracts the most ambitious Entrepreneurs because it best enables them to reach quality and scale at once. Hence “quality and scale, simultaneously” defines startups more than the occasional innovation that, in some cases, is needed to achieve that goal.
Furthermore, there is innovation in large, traditional, mature companies too. To see this, it’s always useful to recall Clayton Christensen’s theory of the three types of innovation:
Empowering innovations make costly products available to the masses (the Ford Model T was an empowering innovation, as is Uber’s private chauffeur for everyone); they create jobs (to make, sell, or operate the products or services) but demand lots of capital.
Sustaining innovations replace old products with new ones: they are important and exciting but are a zero-sum game in terms of jobs and capital.
Efficiency innovations are about making more with less, almost always result in the net destruction of jobs, and allow for the reallocation of capital elsewhere in the economy.
Large companies tend to favor sustaining and efficiency innovations and shy away from empowering ones. But at the same time not every startup implements empowering innovation — far from it. Furthermore, there could be much more radical innovation in large companies in the future. As Scott Anthony wrote in 2012 in the Harvard Business Review,
Three trends are behind this shift. First, the increasing ease and decreasing cost of innovation mean that start-ups now face the same short-term pressures that have constrained innovation at large companies; as soon as a young company gets a whiff of success, it has to race against dozens of copycats. Second, large companies, taking a page from start-up strategy, are embracing open innovation and less hierarchical management and are integrating entrepreneurial behaviors with their existing capabilities. And third, although innovation has historically been product- and service-oriented, it increasingly involves creating business models that tap big companies’ unique strengths.
In other words, there are still reasons for big companies to aim for innovation. First, they can preserve jobs and avoid pain by intelligently preparing for the inevitable. Second, there are many fields (mining or construction for example) that have not yet attracted many startups, which creates opportunities to be seized by established players. Lastly, some of the world’s problems can be best addressed by global giants who can invest exclusive resources in abundance.
Indeed, “most people continue to believe big companies are where innovation goes to die,” but there certainly is no equivalence between startups and innovation: many startups don’t innovate; some non-startups implement radical innovation. And innovation is certainly not what makes startups so powerful when they aim at taking a position in an industry’s value chain.
Here are three questions for all of you corporate executives:
Did you think that startups were about innovation? If yes, root this idea out of your head and start studying startups. Innovation matters, but startups are not all about innovation.
Is your own innovation effort trapped within a dedicated department? If yes, start by suppressing it: innovation is about breaking constraints, not playing in a sandbox.
Are you ready to unleash radical innovation and everything it implies? If not, you probably won’t last long in today’s economy.
I’m glad to have your comments and feedback. Also, sign up for my weekly newsletter to be notified when new issues are published.