HEDGE | How Liberalism Shaped the Corporate Contract
Notes on my new book, week by week

By Nicolas Colin (Co-Founder & Partner) | The Family

This series is based on writings for my new book (code-named ‘HEDGE’) about liberalism and the Entrepreneurial Age. Each Monday (usually), I share ideas and sources related to the latest completed chapter. To be sure to be in the loop, you can subscribe to my weekly newsletter.
Why the corporate contract reflects a balance of power
A corporation is a legal fiction that embodies the contract between shareholders, executives, employees and customers. Often these groups have conflicting interests: the more you pay your employees, the higher the price for your customers; or the dividends you pay your shareholders can come at the expense of your customers. The balance of power in the corporate contract depends in part on the institutional landscape shaped by the political influence of these groups. Thus the history of corporations can be told as the history of social and economic institutions.
Find out about the history of public companies since the sixteenth century.
Read about the “Wal-Mart Effect” and its ambivalence.
How the Corporate Contract contributed to empowering individuals
The first liberal power struggles with corporations were on behalf of individuals as investors. Ultimately the institutions created to protect individual investors — limited liability and bankruptcy law — proved a good thing for corporations themselves. Workers in turn defended their end of the bargain by creating powerful unions and collective bargaining capability. Consumers were empowered last by new institutions such as consumer banking, antitrust legislation, class actions and consumer safety regulations.
Discover how more powerful unions support economic growth.
Read about Upton Sinclair’s report about the meatpacking industry that created new demands for consumer safety.
How the welfare state became the complement to labor law
From the start, the state-sponsored version of insurance was designed to hedge individuals against the risks that could not be covered on the market. These “social risks” used to be primarily a family responsibility. Thanks to the safety net provided by the welfare state, which made them less dependent on their employers, workers conquered a stronger bargaining power towards their employers. It is the development of this state-sponsored social insurance that revealed the split in the liberal tradition.
Find out why the welfare state supported an economic purpose
Read about the criticality of economic insecurity.
All related readings
The Key to Industrial Capitalism: Limited Liability (The Economist, 1999)
Reconstructing the Wagner Act (Jean-Christian Vinel, 2003)
American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (Dictionary of American History, 2003)
The Real Wal-Mart Effect (Pankaj Ghemawat & Ken A. Mark, 2006)
The New Economic Insecurity—And What Can Be Done About It (Jacob Hacker, 2007)
Amazon Must Be Stopped (Franklin Foer, 2014)
Research and the Reality of Time Worked (Eric Dodds, 2015)
Networks and the Nature of the Firm (Tim O’Reilly, 2015)
How Teddy Roosevelt Invented Spin (David Greenberg, 2016)
The Freedom Lover’s Case for the Welfare State (Will Wilkinson, 2016)
A New Corporate Contract for the Digital Age (2016)